原文：[Python Weekly Issue 266](http://eepurl.com/ckV18z)

---
  
Welcome to issue 266 of Python Weekly. Let's get straight to the links this
week.  
  
# 来自赞助商  
  |
[![](https://gallery.mailchimp.com/e2e180baf855ac797ef407fc7/images/6a426b27-541e-4bd7-b621-23ccdc662301.jpg)](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0185367JQ/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=B0185367JQ&linkCode=as2&tag=mymerch-20&linkId=OLIXWD4WZ5X6FFHD)

Hey Pythonista, would you like to show your love for **Python**? Then [click here](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0185367JQ/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=B0185367JQ&linkCode=as2&tag=mymerch-20&linkId=OLIXWD4WZ5X6FFHD)
to get your T-Shirt and wear it proudly.  
  
  
# 文章，教程和讲座   
  
[Episode #80: TinyDB: A tiny document db written in
Python](https://talkpython.fm/episodes/show/80/tinydb-a-tiny-document-db-
written-in-python)  
NoSQL and document dbs like MongoDB have made building fast scalable software
that is easy to evolve and maintain much easier for a broad class of
applications. Embeddable, file-based databases like SQLite have made
"shipping" an application requiring a database a no brainer. The database just
runs in process so there is no setup or maintenance. Yet, when you try to
intersect these two excellent capabilities, you'll find the options very
limited. There just aren't many embeddable document databases. If you're a
Python developer, and you want a native Python solution, the options are much
slimmer still. That's why I'm excited to introduce you to Markus Siemens and
TinyDb. This is a 100% pure python, embeddable, pip-installable document DB
for Python.  
  
[NumPy Tutorial: Data analysis with Python](https://www.dataquest.io/blog
/numpy-tutorial-python/)  
In this tutorial, we'll walk through using NumPy to analyze data on wine
quality. The data contains information on various attributes of wines, such as
pH and fixed acidity, along with a quality score between 0 and 10 for each
wine. The quality score is the average of at least 3 human taste testers. As
we learn how to work with NumPy, we'll try to figure out more about the
perceived quality of wine.  
  
[Podcast.__init__ Episode 79 - K Lars Lohn](https://podcastinit.com/k-lars-
lohn.html)  
K Lars Lohn has had a long and varied career, spending his most recent years
at Mozilla. This week he shares some of his stories about getting involved
with Python, his work with Mozilla, and his inspiration for the closing
keynote at PyCon US 2016. He also elaborates on the intricate mazes that he
draws and his life as an organic farmer in Oregon.  
  
[Fuzzy search with MongoDB and Python](https://medium.com/xeneta/fuzzy-search-
with-mongodb-and-python-57103928ee5d)  
At Xeneta we operate the world's largest container freight rate database and
provide powerful analytics on top of that. One of the most basic use cases is
finding out the average price to ship a container of a certain type from one
port to another. To enable that we have to give users the ability to search
for ports. As with all geographical objects, port names may not necessarily be
easy to remember or spell correctly, so the search tool has to be robust
against typos. This article presents a reasonably simple and flexible solution
to this problem which will be especially useful if you are running MongoDB, as
it does not require external search tools.  
  
[Fixing Python Performance with Rust](https://blog.sentry.io/2016/10/19
/fixing-python-performance-with-rust.html)  
  
[Building a REST API with Flask and the Orator ORM](http://blog.eustace.io
/buiding-rest-api-with-flask-orator.html)  
  
[One Hundred Years of Solitude: how I analyzed my favorite
book](https://medium.com/@finalfire/one-hundred-years-of-solitude-how-i
-analyzed-my-favorite-book-6c20456480c8)  
  
[Static types in Python, oh my(py)!](http://blog.zulip.org/2016/10/13/static-
types-in-python-oh-mypy/)  
  
[The stack of iterators pattern](http://garethrees.org/2016/09/28/pattern/)  
  
  
# 好玩的项目，工具和库 
  
[HawkPost](https://github.com/whitesmith/hawkpost)  
Generate links that users can use to submit messages encrypted with your
public key.  
  
[python-reference](https://github.com/justmarkham/python-reference)  
Quick reference to Python in a single script and notebook.  
  
[Sanic](https://github.com/channelcat/sanic)  
Flask-like Python 3.5+ web server that's written to go fast.  
  
[pyvisgraph](https://github.com/TaipanRex/pyvisgraph)  
Given a list of simple obstacle polygons, build the visibility graph and find
the shortest path between two points.  
  
[PyMoe](https://github.com/ccubed/PyMoe)  
PyMoe is a python interface to several popular Anime and Manga services for
Python 3.  
  
[urlwatch](https://github.com/thp/urlwatch)  
urlwatch is intended to help you watch changes in webpages and get notified
(via email, in your terminal or with a custom-written reporter class) of any
changes. The change notification will include the URL that has changed and a
unified diff of what has changed.  
  
[Dragonchain](https://github.com/dragonchain/dragonchain)  
The Dragonchain platform attempts to simplify integration of real business
applications onto a blockchain. Providing features such as easy integration,
protection of business data, fixed 5 second blocks, currency agnosticism, and
interop features, Dragonchain shines a new and interesting light on blockchain
technology.  
  
[fast-neural-style.tf](https://github.com/junrushao1994/fast-neural-style.tf)  
Feed-forward neural network for real-time artistic style transfer.  
  
[lptrace](https://github.com/khamidou/lptrace)  
lptrace is strace for Python programs. It lets you see in real-time what
functions a Python program is running. It's particularly useful to debug weird
issues on production.  
  
[mocker](https://github.com/tonybaloney/mocker)  
A proof-of-concept imitation of Docker, written in 100% Python. Using Kernel
Namespaces, cgroups and network namespaces/iproute2 for Linux.  
  
  
# 近期活动和网络研讨会 
  
[Online Event: Your pandas questions
answered!](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/pandas/register)  
This is a 1-hour Q&amp;A session about pandas, the leading Python library for
data analysis, exploration, and manipulation. All levels of pandas users are
welcome to attend and ask questions! No question is too simple or too complex.  
  
[San Francisco Django Meetup October 2016 - San Francisco,
CA](https://www.meetup.com/The-San-Francisco-Django-Meetup-
Group/events/234806317/)  
There will be following talks

  * Django Rest Framework: Tips, Tricks and Hacks 
  * A two-step dance with Django and Jinja2 templates

